For wearables to be used in a medical context,
research and clinical trials need to be done with wearable devices.
We're going to look into one such study, the Apple Heart Study.
The Apple Heart Study aim to detect an abnormal heart rhythm called atrial fibrillation,
sometimes abbreviated AF or AFib with an Apple Watch.
Atrial fibrillation is one of the most common irregular rhythm in the United States,
affecting up to 6 million people.
It's also associated with a 4-5x increase in the likelihood of a stroke.
The study which was conducted by researchers at Stanford recruited
419,000 participants over the Internet in a span of just eight months.
Participants just had to download an app over
the App Store and provided they already owned an Apple Watch and an iPhone,
they could participate in the study.
The watch would then notify participants that if it detected an irregular pulse rhythm.
What's notified the researchers would send these participants are
wearable ECG chest pads for seven days
that would confirm whether or not they were experiencing AFib.
Thirty four percent of the notified participants in the study were
confirmed to have AFib from the seven-day chess patch.
AFib can be intermittent though,
meaning it can come and go.
Even if someone has it,
there's no guarantee it would show up during the chess patch period.
Now that you know what the study is, in the next video,
I'll share with you some of my thoughts on the results and their implications.